H815 - LG G4
===========================

The LG G4 is a mobile handset featuring a 5.5 in 1440p display, a snapdragon 808 hexacore processor and 3 GB RAM, 32 GB internal storage with the option to expand to 2TB. The micro USB port doubles as HDMI out.

Status
------

Halium
^^^^^^

Halium works on this device although not all features are functional as of writing. The device is currently being worked on by `Ari Börde Kröyer <https://github.com/abkro>`_.

The Halium version is 7.1 and the kernel is version 3.10.84. The device boots into the Ubports Ubuntu Touch 32 bit rootfs. 

What works:
Graphics (including screen rotation), wifi, audio, sensors, and sms are all working. Audio in calls is currently not functional, although it is possible to place and receive calls.

Distributions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Overview of available distributions and the status of these, as well as corresponding sources.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Distribution
     - Device Specific Files
     - Kernel
     - What works
     - What doesn't work
   * - `LG G4 (h815) on LineageOS Wiki <https://wiki.lineageos.org/devices/h815/>`_
     - `LineageOS/android_device_lge_h815 <https://github.com/LineageOS/android_device_lge_h815>`_  `LineageOS/android_device_lge_g4-common <https://github.com/LineageOS/android_device_lge_g4-common>`_ `proprietary_vendor_lge <https://github.com/TheMuppets/proprietary_vendor_lge>`_
     - `android_kernel_placeholder <placeholder>`_ based on vX.Y.Z
     - ?
     - ?
   * - Ubports device page: `none as yet <placeholder>`_
     - `abkro/android_device_lge_h815/tree/halium-7.1-ut <https://github.com/abkro/android_device_lge_h815/tree/halium-7.1-ut>`_ `abkro/android_device_lge_g4-common/tree/halium-7.1-ut <https://github.com/abkro/android_device_lge_g4-common/tree/halium-7.1-ut>`_ Vendor blobs: see above.
     - `abkro/android_kernel_lge_msm8992 <https://github.com/abkro/android_kernel_lge_msm8992/tree/halium-7.1-ut>`_ based on v3.10.84
     - Graphics, screen rotation, wifi, audio, sensors, sms
     - Camera, audio in calls


Kernel & Hardware
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Mainline (vX.Y.Z as of writing)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

---

Cyanogemod based kernels (LOS & UBP)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

---

Device Specifics
----------------

Guides
^^^^^^

`LOS device page <https://wiki.lineageos.org/devices/h815/>`_.

Developer Info
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Once the device has been unlocked, TWRP recovery has been installed and you have flashed the device, reflashing has to be done as follows, using adb:

Enter TWRP recovery
Wipe as necessary
Connect to host pc by USB cable
Enter directory on host where your boot image resides
Input command: 'adb push <your_boot_image> /sdcard/Download/'
On the device: Select 'install', navigate to directory /sdcard/Download, choose 'Image', select the file, select 'Boot', swipe to flash.

For flashing system image and rootfs, follow instructions in the relevant guide.


