
Xiaomi Redmi 2/Prime (wt88047)
===============================

Xiaomi Redmi 2 smartphone was launched in January 2015. The phone comes with a 4.70-inch touchscreen display with a resolution of 720 pixels by 1280 pixels at a PPI of 312 pixels per inch.

Status
------

Halium
^^^^^^

A port for Halium 7.1 is being worked on by `Abhishek Mudgal <https://github.com/abhishek9650>`_ 

Distributions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Distribution
     - Device Specific Files
     - Kernel
     - What works
     - What doesn't work
   * - `WT88047 on LineageOS Wiki <https://wiki.lineageos.org/devices/wt88047>`_
     - `LineageOS\android_device_wingtech_wt88047 <https://github.com/LineageOS/android_device_wingtech_wt8804>`_
     - `LineageOS\android_kernel_wingtech_msm8916 <https://github.com/LineageOS/android_kernel_wingtech_msm8916>`_ based on v3.10.49
     - see device page
     - see device page


Kernel & Hardware
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Mainline (vX.Y.Z as of writing)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Write whether something that is needed for the device is mainline already (switch the version in the heading for what's recent when you write this). This means **device tree source files (.dts) as well as single drivers** (for example only the wifi driver).

Cyanogemod based kernels (LOS & UBP)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Both **Halium and LOS share a common base** which is Cyanogenmod. However, the Halium kernel was pacthed with Halium-specific edits. Currently only kernel flags in ``lineageos_wt88047_defconfig`` were altered.

Device Specifics
----------------

Guides
^^^^^^

Bootloader for wt88047 comes pre unlocked.

Flash hybris-boot as a boot image from fastboot.

In order to launch recovery, do press "Power + Volume Down + Volume UP"

Also, be sure to check `the LineageOS device info for WT88047 <https://github.com/LineageOS/lineage_wiki/blob/master/_data/devices/wt88047.yml>`_

Developer Info
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This device is mostly open and has no weird behaviour

Useful Resources
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* `Repo Manifest <https://gist.github.com/abhishek9650/0a33682de9c2307dd8694ea2168cb578>`_
* `TWRP for Xiaomi Redmi2/Prime <https://eu.dl.twrp.me/wt88047/>`_
